Notes on the Alphabet

Insights gained from analysis of ancient European cave symbols based in part on Mediterranean studies and symbols collected by Genevieve and Dillon von Petzinger.

A - A symbol is an Ox (bull) head - 
B - B symbol is a dwelling symbol like a tent with a pole and pitched roof (earlier). It also looked like a squared pieces of cloth such as used in a tent covering. Later this also represented square (flat roof) house. The sound was originally much more similar to 'V'. 
C - 
D - D symbol was originally a triangle and represents a fish shape (not sure if the body, head or fins are intended)
E - 
F - 
G - G symbol is a stick with a little branch sticking out at one end, as was used as a throwing device for spears, etc. Also the shape of a camel and giraffe neck, which are both related to the letter (one of the original names sounds just like 'camel' but starting with a G instead of C.)
H - The H sound and symbol link may come from the idea of showing your teeth when making the sound. The H symbol represents a row of uprights, like teeth, the teeth of a comb and the timber uprights inside a wall. In languages that have a soft and hard H, the wall represents the hard sound and a comb represents the soft sound.
I - I was same as J (arm) but possibly a weapon symbol.
J - A human arm symbol. The J sound overlaps with the Y sound.
K - A human hand or palm leaf symbol.
L - A staff or stick symbol, for prodding cattle, sheep, etc, a goad. In Egypt this was represented by the shepherd tools that the pharaoh held, which is an odd thing to hold.
M - Water waves symbol.
N - Possibly a snake, a fish or gentle water waves. We're not sure.
O - A human eye symbol, which originally sounded quite close to the English word 'eye' or 'aye' rather than 'oh'. I'm not sure why this got rounded as it is.
P - A human mouth symbol (I'm not sure whether that's a tongue or tooth sticking out). A 
Q  - 
R - A human head symbol.
S - Originally more like a lowercase w shape, like the bottom of a bicuspid (two pointed) tooth.
T - A cross mark, originally often written as an 'X'.
U - 
V - 
W - A fastening symbol, various variations have been used. One like a 'Y' as a type of piercing fastening pin for animal furs or cloth of your clothes. Another like a spiral represents fastening two things by binding them with cord wrapped around multiple times. The current one is like fastening two pieces of material with thread stitches and a needle pin.
X - Like W, X symbol seems to have been associated with fastening (such as two sticks bound together with string) but possibly also associated with unfastening or cutting.
Y - Overlaps J, generally the same.
Z - possibly a weapon?



I'll add more to this when there is time.
By Andrew Kingdom, MIT License (CC-BY).

